as the lights are flickering the lights
are on they're off an officer approaches
me
um very quickly and she grabs me and
she's wearing nothing that indicates
she's an officer and again I hadn't met
her she never alerted me she was in the
room her face is covered with a mask and
she tells me very quickly trying to pull
me along as more people are filtering
into the room she says come with me I'm
I'm with the police and I didn't believe
her why would I believe her right
um so I was very hesitant I was
reluctant but truthfully I had no other
choice at this point because I was being
we were being rushed at the front of the
room
so we kind of navigate out of the room
we're only met with more protesters once
we get into the hallway we couldn't even
come out of the door of the classroom
because there were so many people
filtering in that we had to go out this
back door that led us to another
classroom to get out that way
um to which when we got to the hallway
you look down to the staircase there's
hundreds of people you look down to the
other staircase of course which is your
exit path to get out of the building and
it's hundreds of people
so ultimately we had no other choice
than this officer led me to another room
along that same hallway where
I was barricaded for three hours over
three hours
um which was
interesting it was I mean you in those
moments and those hours you fear for
your life
[Music]
hello everyone today I'm speaking with
American athlete top ranking swimmer
and now campaigner for genuine female
rights Riley Gaines in our conversation
we're going to cover her career thus far
how she's navigated leadership positions
in female sports and otherwise how those
Sports have been co-opted by men
claiming to be women
the ideological capture they're in and
of course her recent experiences at San
Francisco State University
hi Riley I understand that it's about
four in the morning there in Nashville
I'm in Portugal so uh you know time zone
trouble it's real good of you to stay up
so damn late and agree to talk to me and
to everybody else here so let's start
with this
um let's talk a little bit about your
life over the last couple of years like
what does your life consist of I presume
you're studying and you're aiming at
something you're also an athlete so tell
me what how your life should be let's
say and uh what you're aiming at in and
how your life actually is and then we'll
start talking about what happened to you
most recently at San Francisco State
absolutely
yeah yeah so what's what have you been
up to the last few years while you were
you know pursuing the past pathway let's
say of a normal person I had every
intention of finishing my collegiate
career of swimming graduating and going
to dental school
um that's always been my passion was
dentistry
um specifically I wanted to be an
endodontist which is someone who
performs root canals essentially
I graduated with a degree in human
health sciences and health law from the
University of Kentucky I was set to be
in dental school this year but with
everything that really happened and I
know we'll dive into that it I decided I
really realized that dental school
that's something that will always be
there but the relevance and the
importance behind the issue we're going
to talk about it's not going to always
be there and I understood if someone
with the same powerful testimony that I
have the same voice someone who's
unafraid to speak the truth doesn't
stick up for this I really just saw
what's at stake and so I put my life on
hold for a year I've reapplied for
dental school in the fall I'm set to go
to the University of Tennessee but I'm
still kind of wavering with the idea of
if that's right for me at this time
right right okay so let's let's talk a
little bit about well your performance
as a student but then also your athletic
career so what makes you let's say what
makes you a credible competitive swimmer
and then off of that what makes you a
credible voice for let's say athletes in
general but for female athletes in
particular so how good an athlete are
you what's your record and and yeah you
know what what are your credentials so
I've accomplished some really amazing
things that I'm really proud of over my
career
um I qualified for Olympic trials in
2016.
um I was only 15 years old at the time
so I was one of the youngest ones there
again in 2020 to which translated into
2021 because of covet and such
um I have won five SEC championships I'm
a 12 time NCAA All-American
um
let's see I'm the SEC record holder in
the 200 butterfly which means and what
is that that's SEC did you say yes
that's the Southeastern Conference so
um which is the most powerful conference
in my opinion of course I'm biased
um but I am the SEC record holder and
the 200 butterfly which means under this
shirt I have really big shoulders that
I'm I tried to cover with my hair
um making me one of the fastest
Americans of all time in the event
um so I've really done some incredible
things that I will forever be proud of
these are memories I can always look
back on
um and I think that's what gives me the
credibility in my sport
what gives me the credibility
that I that allows me to use my voice
and be heard is the fact that I have
first-hand experience competing against
a male
um I got to personally witness and
experience the Injustice that we face I
felt the effect that this infringement
had on myself and my teammates and how
this affected us how it affected our
performance how it affected our health
our mental health and what that looked
like from our perspective as female
athletes who were directly impacted
the content I've created over the past
year represents some of my best to date
as I've undertaken additional extensive
exploration in today's most challenging
topics and experienced a nice increment
in production quality courtesy of daily
wire plus we all want you to benefit
from the knowledge gained throughout
this adventurous Journey I'm pleased to
let you know that for a limited time
you're invited to access all my content
with a seven day free trial at dailywire
plus this will provide you with full
access to my new In-Depth series on
marriage as well as guidance for
creating a Life vision and my series
exploring the book of Exodus you'll also
find there the complete library of all
my podcasts and lectures I have a
plethora of new content in development
that will be coming soon exclusively on
daily wire plus voices of reason and
resistance are few and far between these
strange days click on the link below if
you want to learn more and thank you for
watching and listening
foreign
[Music]
okay so let's let's delve into people
aren't going to know this so you are
competing at extremely high level
on the athletic front and
you know I I've worked with some Stellar
athletes as a clinician and I've worked
with lots of people who were at the top
of their game professionally let's say
and
usually what that takes on the
professional front
is something like well extreme ability
extreme native ability in whatever area
happens to be under consideration and
then
Dedication that goes above and beyond
the norm and so the typical great
scientist for example
is absolutely 100 percent obsessed with
what they do it's a 16-hour day job
essentially seven days a week generally
for decades it's the only way that you
get to the top of a
a profession let's say or an Endeavor
that has any degree of rank order by
Merit and competitiveness right you have
to be as able as anyone else or more
able but then you have to be dedicated
Beyond well far beyond the norm because
otherwise you're not going to be at the
top so when did you start swimming and
what did you have to do on the
discipline front
and also I suppose what sacrifices did
your family make to make that possible
so that you could compete at this level
so I started swimming when I was four
years old
um I am 22 so I've dedicated 18 years of
my life to my sport
um by the time I was eight years old
that's when I really started I
transitioned to swimming year round so
this meant that in second grade you're
swimming two hours every single day and
it really only gets harder from there
because by the time you get to middle
school and high school you're practicing
before school then you go straight to
school and straight from school you go
back to practice after practice you go
home you eat your dinner you do your
homework you ice your shoulder you go to
bed but you wake up and do it all again
the next day and I love what you said
about being willing no one forced us to
do this but we knew that's what you had
to do to compete at that that top level
I was very blessed why in the world did
why in the world did you do it I mean
you know there's a lot well first of all
it's it's a very it's a very focal
application of time and energy over a
very long period of time right and you
could argue that well there's many
things to do in life and why
concentrate so obsessively on that
single thing what was it about your
family your situation your psychology
that or your ability that made this
attractive to you why did why did you
why did you spend so much time and
energy I think I think a couple things
um I come from a family of athletes my
dad he was an SEC football player and
went on to play in the NFL all of my
uncles were they played in the NFL for
10 plus years they've won Super Bowls
done really incredible things my
youngest brother who's in college
playing football my mom she was a
Division One softball player so I think
Sports is something that I've always
been almost infatuated by and it's weird
because swimming of course it's
there's not necessarily a good word to
describe it other than it's treacherous
it's miserable but in the best way so it
is an interesting Dynamic it is truly
this love hate relationship you love the
team I love setting goals I love
achieving goals I loved winning
um and in a sense I loved practicing of
course it's painful it's hard you wake
up at 5am to go swim three hours right
before you go to class all day there's a
lot of I'll say negatives that go into
competing and and training at this level
but the positives they outweigh the
negatives tenfold there's no better
feeling than achieving your goal winning
I think I'm I'm this person who's driven
I'm competitive and I think a lot of
that stems from my family from growing
up with three siblings we were always on
each other's backs but it's a blessing
I'm very fortunate for really how I grew
up and how my parents raised me
okay so there was a lot of value in your
family strip placed on athletic
accomplishment but then also on you you
talked about two fundamental sources of
motivation and uh I would say both of
those sources of motivation have come
under heavy criticism in recent years
the pleasure that you take let's say in
achieving goals that's associated with
ambition and
um as our
culture has been torn apart by this
current state of ideological idiocy
people have
done everything they can to identify
ambition
or let's say it that desire for
achievement both with ambition and with
dominance and with power and then you
also make a case for enjoying women
winning you know and there are movements
in the education field that have been
you know bandied about probably for a
century but particularly since the 1960s
predicated on the insistence that all
competition is intrinsically wrong and
that any Endeavor that requires the
victory of one and the defeat of many
let's say which is typically the case is
is somehow inappropriate and maybe even
at its base immoral and I suppose that
critique can be extended to the whole
free market uh Enterprise you know where
there are clear winners and losers in
different domains so why do you think
and why has this been true for you
personally why do you think that
it's a valid ethical Endeavor to be
ambitious and to attempt to achieve
these high order goals and why is it do
you think that it's appropriate to take
pleasure in both competition and
competitive victory
I don't look as ambition as something
that's selfish
um I have had my fair share of course I
I am an ambitious person again I like to
achieve my goals but there are many
times where I've fallen short of
achieving my goals
um so it sounds as if you know you're
doing this to win to to compete at that
at that high level and whatever that
looks like
um but I take value in not achieving my
goals how can we build from that how can
we continue to use your failures
um your shortcomings as a way to
continue building up
so as much as I do take value in winning
I think there's a certain aspect to
losing that is also beneficial and has
really
thrusted me into the position that I'm
in that's it's given me the confidence
to do what I'm doing the leadership the
security to take the arrows that I've
been taking and so
um I think it's a balance
um being ambitious yeah well that's a
that's a really good point you know on
the resilience front because one of the
things that people need to do to develop
in their lives
is well you could say grace and victory
but you can also say grace and
resilience and defeat and
the reason for that is that as we
progress through life as you pointed out
on all fronts things are not always
going to turn out the way we want them
to turn out and we're going to all
suffer harsh defeats of one form or
another sometimes justly and sometimes
unjustly and because of that one of the
things that we need to learn and to
learn early is how to take defeat in
stride now you made a case that not only
did you learn to take it in stride but
that you also learned how to extract
extract value let's say from your
failures so that you could then proceed
to a new level of striving entertainment
you know when we see someone who's a
good sport and generally that's someone
who we might spontaneously admire
we see someone who doesn't take too much
who doesn't try to
become vainglorious let's say as a
consequence of winning but even more
importantly that can take a defeat in
Good Humor can learn from it and can
move forward nonetheless and the reason
we admire that is because we all need to
learn how to do that and you do learn
that in the context of competition if
the competition is structured fairly and
as a consequence of of like task
specific Merit let's say which is
clearly the case in in an athletic realm
absolutely so
right so it's you think now you think
that you said that um
you you made a lot of sacrifices on the
time and energy front let's say to
engage in this competitive Enterprise
but that the rewards
despite the effort the rewards were much
greater than the cost of the sacrifice
so and you've alluded to some of the
rewards you said that you've been able
to discipline yourself and push yourself
and you've also got resilient in the
face of defeat which is crucially
important how do you think that's
generalized to the rest of your life and
do you think that's typically the case
for people who engage in athletic
competition like what do you think that
does for people in general
I think the higher you compete in terms
of what level you're competing at
athletically whether that be high school
then college and then whatever sport
that you may be doing Olympic level I
think the higher you compete the more
benefits you reap typically
um you learn more about determination
grit resiliency
um of course you are able to the
athletic achievements continue as well
but the lifelong skills and
characteristics you develop outside of
just the athletic achievements these are
skills that will translate far beyond
that into your whole life forever and
that's something again that I'm I'm
witnessing in myself I think if I didn't
play sports if I didn't have
that sense of teamwork that sense of I
was team captain at University of
Kentucky for two years so if I didn't
have that sense of leadership
accountability really I think
accountability is and responsibility is
a good word
um then I don't think I would feel
confident enough to take a public stance
and the way that I have this past year
which it sounds silly because my stance
is so simple and it's rooted and of
course truth and Common Sense and
Science and logic reasoning all the
things
um so it sounds silly to say I might not
have the confidence and Leadership and
the security in and of myself to take
the arrows that I'm taking if it weren't
for sports I really do accredit that to
being an athlete there was an Ernst
young study that said near I think 94 of
sea level
Executives so CEO CFO CEO that are
females were once female athletes and I
think that shows how
um the skills that you develop translate
far beyond your sport
yeah well it might it might seem silly
in one sense for you to
make any claims to
the necessity for training for just
saying the things you're saying but
there aren't that many people saying the
things you're saying in this public
manner as you're saying them and so
obviously there's difficulties there
that
um are beyond the typical person's
athlete or not the typical person's
ability to withstand so even if the
topic is in some ways surreal
um it's definitely the case that it's
unlikely that people are going to make
take a public stance now and so you said
you learned to
have a certain degree of confidence in
yourself but also to be able to tolerate
a certain amount of stress as a
consequence of this highly competitive
training but I would also ask you you
are the team captain you said for a
number of years
and so what do you think the attributes
what are the necessary attributes of a
team captain now obviously you have to
be very skilled athletically and and
competitive and that means that you're
striving to for victory you're striving
to be the best on your team you're
striving to break the appropriate
records but you have to modify that
obviously if you're team captain and so
like how do you think how did you
reconcile the demands to be the best on
the team with the necessity of being a
team leader and what did you have to
learn in order to Be an Effective
Captain I think the thing that I knew I
wanted to implement as a captain my team
at University of Kentucky there's 40
girls obviously when you're dealing with
40 girls there's a lot of different
personalities there's a lot of different
ways people communicate how they handle
situations how they deal with pressure
how they like to be motivated and so as
a captain number one I wanted to be
someone that everyone felt like they
could talk to
um again when you're dealing with 40
girls of course there's clicks there's
people on the team who are best friends
there are other people who don't
necessarily like each other you work
together but you won't be friends
outside of your sport and so I wanted to
be someone who could
who could unite everyone in a sense I'm
not I don't want to make anyone be
friends with someone they don't want to
be friends with but how can we come
together to achieve our goals and what
that looks like in terms of
communication which again I'm seeing
that translate now into my life and how
I deal with what I'm dealing with but I
think communication is huge two I think
what strived me
um to help us all achieve our goals our
goals to be set as a team was to
constantly remind the team of the goals
we set I think it's very often in sports
where you talk about big things and then
you kind of forget about it and when it
comes Championship season or whatever
that looks like
um you're not geared up to achieve what
you've set because you haven't worked
towards it really you talk about it but
talking about it isn't enough so in
practice I would constantly remind
people hey you know this is the goal you
set for yourself personally which can
help us achieve our goals as a team
don't forget that and I always saw them
right so that's that alignment line well
one of the most effective leadership
strategies
although I hate to reduce it to a
strategy because it's more than that is
to
produce an organization
predicated on the intrinsic alignment of
interests right and so what you really
want if you set up an organization is
you want each person pursuing a goal
that they personally value and so are
willing to work for and to sacrifice for
and to dedicate themselves to and then
you want each of those goals to be
serving a superordinate goal that
unites and moves the entire team ahead
and then you don't have to use coercion
and so forth and you can imagine if
you're doing that
helping each athlete become the best
they can be on the personal level for
whatever personal gain they might manage
in terms of being more resilient and in
terms of you know uh achievement status
and all of those things comparative
status you're also doing the same thing
for the team and you can see perfect you
can understand with without much effort
how useful that would be in executive
management for example like I I worked
with a number of extraordinarily good
managers in the business realm
especially in the on the legal front and
then also in Academia and the really
great managers
they had a very light touch
they tended to go around and remove
problems before they started and so it
often looked like they were doing almost
nothing but they were also extremely
good at aligning people's interests so
that everybody was moving in the same
desirable Direction and so what do you
think you did badly
on that front and had to learn to do
better and what do you think you did
well
I think
the things I did well
um were the things I mentioned I it's
especially as a woman it's difficult to
hold each other accountable typically
women they don't like to be assertive in
that way they think it's mean they think
it's they take it personal and so
something I always tried to do well was
hold people accountable in a way that
made them want to do better and I think
that falls along with again helping
people develop personally to reach those
team goals which again it's I don't
think even a male can understand
necessarily
um
how women how especially a room a group
of 40 women that Dynamic is hard to
navigate and so holding people
accountable I think it's crucial and I
feel as if I did that relatively well
um what I think I I could have probably
improved on is being a little more
understanding
um it's hard for me to put myself in
someone else's shoes sometimes
um to consider what they have going on
outside of you know the sport because we
truly did put so much of our identity so
much of our self-worth into our sport
that I oftentimes would forget to look
at anything other than what's going on
in the sport if someone was having a bad
practice it was very quick for me to get
snippy at them
um without remotely and thinking about
other factors that could contribute to
the bad practice whether that be sleep
yeah
that's a hard psychological Dynamic and
you made a sex specific comment there
too that we could delve into well
you know if you're focused on a
particular goal and you're competitive
in achievement oriented and you want to
win then
your focus tends to narrow to that
particular domain right absolutely what
that means is that you'll sacrifice
other interests and concerns for that
particular
what would you say ability to for to to
progress along that particular axis and
as you said well that can come across as
harsh now
on average women are more agreeable than
men and so that means on average they're
less harsh at least overtly and you know
it's it's an open question and I don't
think anybody knows exactly how to
answer this question then what effective
leadership on the female front looks
like now you faulted yourself and I
would say you faulted yourself in some
sense for taking a more masculine
perspective on those sorts of group
Endeavors because it's typical among men
for a group of men to concentrate on the
goal at hand and to say to hell with all
the other concerns which is something
like don't blink bring your bloody
troubles to work just do your damn job
now you made the point that that was
perhaps differentially challenging when
working with women you think why do you
think that why isn't that just a sexist
claim for example I mean what why do you
think that's the case where have you run
into that how would you justify it and
what did you do about it right yeah this
is solely based off my experiences
um at the University of Kentucky of
course there's a men's team and a
women's team my husband now who I've
married he was on the men's team at
Kentucky
just watching their interactions
watching how they can communicate with
each other brush it off come back to the
next practice and be totally fine that
doesn't work with girls
um again based solely off of my
experiences this isn't to over
generalize this is to
share exactly what I have seen firsthand
um girls tend to be more Moody they tend
to not take constructive criticism as
well whether that be from the coach or
from other teammates or from whoever but
the men on the other hand especially at
the University of Kentucky which again I
was able to witness they could get on
each other's backs they could say
personal things to each other that even
didn't necessarily apply to their sport
when they were getting on one another as
women there would be cat fights if we
did that which again sounds silly but
that's truthfully what I experience on a
day-to-day basis
whether you're feeling stressed anxious
or simply seeking a moment of peace and
Tranquility the Hallow app has something
for you hallo offers an incredible range
of guided meditations and prayers that
are designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God with hallow you can
explore different themes and types of
prayer and meditation such as gratitude
forgiveness and centering prayer you can
also choose from different lengths of
meditation to fit your schedule whether
you have a few minutes or an hour with
this user-friendly interface and
hundreds of guided meditations the
Hallow app has quickly become a go-to
resource for people seeking spiritual
growth and healing download the app for
free at hallow.com Jordan you can set
prayer reminders and track your progress
along the way hallow is truly
transformative and will help you connect
with your faith on a deeper level so
what are you waiting for download the
Hallow app today at hallow.com Jordan
that's hello.com Jordan once again it's
hello.com Jordan for an exclusive
three-month free trial of all six
thousand plus prayers and meditations
well you know the other so one of the
temperamental differences between men
and women is that difference in
agreeableness let's say and so there's
less of a tendency for overt conflict
among women now that doesn't mean
there's less of a tendency for covert
conflict and actually what you do see is
that anti-social women
right the ones who who can't cooperate
well and who can't work together in a
team they use underground strategies
like reputation salvaging and gossip to
what would you say promulgate their
aggressive behavior now men are much
more likely to do that up front and
there's some Simplicity in that but also
women have a proclivity to experience
more negative emotion than men and so
for each unit of stress they manifest
more psychophysiological response that
seems to kick in around puberty and so
that additional
you call it volatility is the technical
term that's an aspect of trait
neuroticism by the way that volatility
also that increased volatility also
makes it more difficult arguably for
women to brush things off the same way
that men who are cooperating in a team
might and I mean the reason I'm talking
about this by the way and delving into
this is because we are going to get into
the topic of sex and gender very soon
because well that's where we're headed
given that that's the root of the
conflict that's made made itself
manifest around you and so it's useful
to establish
um and to start to explore the territory
that's relevant with regard to sex
differentiation now obviously
when you were competing you weren't
competing in a co-ed
situation right it was women competing
against women and men competing against
men and it's been set up like that for a
long time so given the claims in our
society for radical equality uh both in
actuality and as a desirable outcome
first of all
do you think that there's any what is if
any the justification for not making all
sporting events let's say radically
co-ed
well because I think we know how this
would turn out
um time and time again regardless of the
sport regardless of if it's an
individual sport a team sport what that
might look like we've seen example after
example where a mediocre male or
mediocre men's team
um nowhere near ranking the top let's
say this could be nationally this could
be whatever level you're comparing here
unanimously these men these men's teams
they dominate the women so having a
co-ed team
that would not be beneficial to women by
any means
um so I I think that's why I believe
there's value to having co-ed
instructional teams when you know you're
younger when you're learning but once
you've gone through that puberty
uh it's it's irreversible
um men are of course on average taller
faster stronger more powerful they jump
higher
um there's so many different
um attributes advantages that men have
in comparison to women and so I think
co-ed teams in a sense if that's what
you're looking for
um of course there's value to it but at
the competitive level where you're
competing again to win
that's what your goal is having men
compete against women is is
very obvious it's it's unfair
okay so so let me let me push this I'm
going to push this as far as I can push
it because things are being pushed in
our culture as far as they can be pushed
so we might as well go in for a penny
and in for a pound
um I could say well why don't we just
scrap women's sports all together like
if the goal is faster stronger better
more powerful and on average that's not
happening in the female domain why don't
we just give up the entire Enterprise on
the female sports end and just let the
men take over the the playing field
if that's the point you know is the if
the point is to Foster the highest
possible level of performance
so to what do you to say that men are
stronger to say that men are faster
taller whatever
um that's not to say that women are
inferior that's not to say that we're
not capable of amazing things and we're
not strong and we're not
um again all of those words are
previously mentioned but we have
different physical ceilings
um I believe we deserve to be celebrated
on our uniqueness that's what makes the
women's sporting category special and
there are still phenoms in women's
sports just like there are male Sports
look at Venus and Serena Williams while
by no means could they compete with the
the best male tennis player they're
phenomenal they are
um
it's amazing what they've accomplished
they've set themselves apart from every
other female in the world and that
deserves to be recognized
um
let's let's delve right let's delve into
that so because you might say well
there's two reasons for high level
competition and let's say on the
athletic front one would be to extend
the domain of what's possible in terms
of performance and to model that for
other people and then you could make a
case well the app you can make the case
that the absolute records are the best
example of that so the fastest person in
the world the fastest swimmer in the
world and most of the time that's going
to be man but then you could make a more
sophisticated case which I believe is
the proper case that actually what
you're doing as a athlete or or as any
expert in a competitive realm is
modeling the ability to push the
envelope and to further transform and
develop
and unless you believe that that's less
important for women which is a
Preposterous thing to believe then you
have to believe that setting up a
situation where women can push the
envelope consistently in whatever
directions they're pushing
you have to presume that that's a
psychological good and a social good and
then you have to presume that the spaces
where that can occur have to be
protected but that also opens the can of
worms doesn't it eh because
since the 1960s in particular
we've blown off the barriers
between men and women in terms of
General participation in society right
and so we've decided that
All Things Considered
space isolated to a given sex are
sub-optimal
right we the schools are co-ed like the
the public schools the universities are
co-ed all business enterprises are co-ed
so to speak and then of course so that
that raises the question well should any
domains be left sex segregated
um if so how do you
walk the fine line between sex
segregation for the purpose of
facilitating development and sex
segregation that turns into
Prejudice and um and oppression right
just rejection on the basis of sex and
then also the thorny question of well
if most Enterprises should be completely
open to both sexes which Enterprises
should be protected do you have any
obviously you believe that
athletic performance athletic
competition per se should be one of
those protected categories but do you
have any sense of how we as a society
should draw the line it's like are there
spaces that should be male only like one
of the things I really wonder about for
example I talked to Tulsi gabbard about
this a while back is like it isn't
obvious to me at all that our society
would benefit by having women
in Frontline combat right like and I it
isn't that I can generate an immediate
coherent argument for why I believe that
there's something about it that strikes
me
more deeply and emotionally I suppose
that that just there's something
Preposterous about that maybe it's
partly because look it isn't obvious to
me that
professional Frontline combat
that's pretty damn hard on anyone that's
even really hard on extremely well put
together and extraordinarily strong and
brave man
and so to also presume that that's going
to be open to women just seems to me to
be taking the whole bloody charade too
far now you know you could say well that
I'm old-fashioned and Prejudiced
although I don't actually think I'm
either but you know it is a thorny
question right it's like well if men and
women are equal then why should there
ever be sex segregated spaces of any
sort and we're certainly seeing seeing
that on the bathroom front we're seeing
that on the change room front we're
seeing that on the athletic front so
what do you where do you think that the
line should be drawn so that there are
female spaces and male spaces and that
those are protected and how do you think
we manage that like legally and
conceptually I think where any
place where either of the Sexes is
vulnerable whether that be in regards to
privacy in regards to Safety in regards
to anything that relies on your
physiology because of course men and
women are physiologically different I
think that's where that sex protection
based rights are important so prisons
that's an area where women specifically
are vulnerable of course shelters again
bathrooms locker rooms no woman should
be subjected to having a male in that
space so I think it's it's areas where
sex oh it's so important okay so it's
okay so it's something like
there's a subset of areas where
the fact of the biological difference
between men and women becomes Paramount
correct right and so those would be well
in change rooms is a really good example
of that but you extended that also to
say women's shelters and prisons
and so forth so it's there's there's
something there that's sort of what
would you say it's reminiscent of the
idea of nakedness I suppose because you
mentioned vulnerability right so you're
stripped down to your most vulnerable
that's when the segregation is most
necessary it's something like that right
I believe it seems that way yeah I
believe there's there's
value and understanding that
um I I truthfully think anywhere where
sex is relevant
um there are certain places
um let's let's consider the the
workplace there are certain places where
sex isn't necessarily relevant there are
certain places where it are I like how
you mentioned military that's a very
good point
um men and women there are differences
there that would again make anything
that requires sheer strength make men be
advantageous and make that more
um
achievable that's that's what we're
wanting right we want to be this
Powerhouse we want men at the Forefront
so I think where sex plays a role that's
where we kind of have to draw that line
there are certain so it would be where
the biological differences are germane
number one to Performance like
specifically germane to Performance but
also number two specifically germane to
differential vulnerability so anywhere
where women are sexually vulnerable or
anywhere where the physical differences
in performance actually have a
substantive effect on
the the the performance itself so well
so here's an example I mean there's no
evidence that men and different men and
women differ in IQ
there are micro differences in IQ and
some of them are arguably important in
some micro domains but overall the
evidence is quite clear that on average
men and women have the same level of
intelligence and so then we might
presume that in any domain where
intelligence is the fundamental marker
of potential Merit there should be no
sex segregation
but if we're if we're looking at
something like let's say
um military
Battlefield rescue that might be a good
one where physical strength and in and
becomes a Paramount marker of the actual
ability to do the job then
sex-based discrimination starts to
become
appropriate and morally required and
then you could make the reverse case
which is well where women are
particularly vulnerable on the sexual
front so that would be in in locker
rooms for example that's also a place
where sex segregation is is reasonable
it's so those are the basic rules
something like that not just is it
appropriate and and morally responsible
it's beneficial
um it's something that is good the for
the greater good of society in general
um so yeah I agree
okay okay okay well that seems that
seems to be a reasonable set of rules of
thumb okay now let's talk about I have
one more question about your the
discipline that was required for you to
become a a high-level swimmer because
you said that the the benefits were
worth the cost but I'd like to talk a
little bit more about the costs and the
reason I'm curious about this is because
we're going to talk about Leah Thomas
soon and we're going to talk about the
entrance of men into the
into the female competitive realm and I
want people to understand just exactly
what's on the line here so when you were
in junior high which is the time when
teenagers start to become say more
hypersocial they're spending most of the
time with their peers they really care
about uh that social time with their
peers they adjudicate almost all of
their status and self-confidence in
relationship to their peer relations
you're spending what four hours a day
swimming
so what did you what did you have to
give up in order on the social front
let's say
maybe on the relationship front for that
matter what did you have to give up to
pursue your
single-minded Devotion to your sport
it's impossible to put into words what
you have to give up by no sense is this
a normal childhood shall we say you
don't get to go to prom you don't get to
go on vacations you don't get to have
sleepovers with your friends and again
no one forced us to do this my parents
didn't force me to play my sport it's
just what I knew I had to do and so it's
you pick one thing to prioritize and for
me it was my sport but there was a lot
of social sacrifices at the Collegiate
level you're missing weeks of school at
a time so right there you're sacrificing
um your education in a sense we're very
fortunate that we have resources like
tutors and different things
that help us not miss out too much but
the amount of things that are altered
because of your sport it's impossible to
put into words again my world
essentially all of our world competing
at that level it has to there's no other
option it revolves around your sport
that that is your priority and
everything else
um really Falls in line behind I missed
out on funerals of loved ones because I
couldn't leave college to go home which
sounds of course morbid it sounds toxic
it sounds
um as if this is is crazy but again
that's that's just what you have to be
willing to do especially in a sport like
swimming swimming is obviously unnatural
for human beings we don't have gills
um we don't it's not a natural ability
um so taking a day off that's that's not
allowed
especially over coven this was a really
hard time because again we never got
sent home I was at University of
Kentucky summer all summer long we were
there over Thanksgiving we didn't get to
leave for Christmas you never got to go
home you got a week off in August each
year
but over covet of course we did get sent
home
this was a struggle not just physically
but the amount of men the toll this had
on on one mentally naturally
um you've dedicated your life to your
sports suddenly very abruptly that's
taken away
and so when we get sent home no pools
are open no gyms are open we got sent
home three days before our national
championships my sophomore year so it
felt as if we had trained all year to
get to the fastest meet in the world
because that's what this meat is
especially short course the fastest meat
in the world you train all year all your
life you get sent home three days before
that was hard that was a hard period of
time but being sent home no pools no
gyms nothing is open constant stress
I was very fortunate to be from
Tennessee where there's lots of lakes so
every day my only option was to put on a
wetsuit and swim miles aimlessly up and
down the lake
um that that's all I knew I could do
because again that's how dedicated I was
and that's not unique to me
um it might be unique in a sense where I
had lakes around me but any of us
competing at that level if you're
dedicated to achieving your goals that's
what you would do so that's what I did
every single day for months
I like knowing exactly where my meat
comes from and with moink I know it's
coming from small Family Farms all
across the country white delivers
grass-fed and grass-finished beef and
lamb pastured pork and chicken and
sustainable wild caught Alaskan salmon
straight to your door Mike lets you
choose the meat delivered in every box
select an existing box or create your
own set your delivery Cadence and enjoy
delicious meat you can cancel anytime
but you won't want to
if you're not sure where to start check
out their standard box it comes with a
little bit of everything chicken ribeye
burgers and steak oink is all about
supporting the Family Farm think about
it this way two percent of Americans are
farmers but 100 of Americans mate we
need to show our support for the
families that keep us well fed after
receiving my first moike box I was
floored the salmon and chicken are both
fantastic and the steak might be the
best I've ever had and keep in mind I
cooked it myself with a freezer full of
moake products I can without a doubt say
it is a fantastic deal on a ton of
delicious and well-produced products you
won't be disappointed and you can rest
assured all of Mike's Meat comes from
wholesome American farmers so keep
American farming Going Strong by signing
up at moinkbox.com jbp right now in Dr
Peterson's listeners can get free bacon
in your first box and let me say it's
the best bacon you'll ever taste I
re-upped my subscription because I ran
out too fast Mo ink box.com
ABP that's micbox.com jbp
[Music]
okay so now we could let's let's let's
take a look at your situation so you're
playing a game uh you're playing this
this game of competitive swimming and
let's lay out the broader social rules
so the rules are something like this
you your uh contribution is the
sacrifices you're willing to make and
the discipline that you're willing to
impose on yourself and the leadership
roles that you're willing to take on to
help other people do the same thing
that's your contribution
now the game rule is that
if you do your part then you can compete
against other people who are basically
facing the same limits you are
intrinsically so those would be people
of your sex and then all of you are
competing to transcend your limitations
to become better losers to become better
winners to become more resilient people
to become more focused and disciplined
and that's the payoff for you but all
those rules have to apply fairly in
order for that game to be justifiable
now your
objecting because some of that
contractual bargain let's say was
violated by the kovid pre-prohibitions
but we're now going to turn to a more
specific case so the rules are you're
competing against people who have the
same limitations you are so that all of
your attempts to transcend your
limitations are fair and then equally
rewarded
but now we throw a monkey wrench into
the works we decide that a biological
male who undergoes a certain amount of
psychological and or physiological
transformation can now be deemed a woman
and so let's turn to that so when were
you and your teammates first faced with
the necessity of competing against
someone who is at one point one hundred
percent a biological male
this is something we did in practice
oftentimes
um so in a sense we were relatively used
to at least we understood the
differences between men and women
because
we would practice together in the
mornings at nights we would have
different practice times than men and
the women's team but in the mornings we
would practice together for the most
part
um so we knew what that looked like I
mean the worst men's swimmer on the
men's team University of Kentucky could
easily beat the fastest girl on our team
so we knew what that looked like but in
terms of facing a male in competition
that did not happen until our NCAA
championships in March for my team there
were other teams within the ivy league
other schools that this was something
they dealt with all year long starting
in October that was what year that was
what year this was it started in 2021 to
2022.
so 2021 and now you said in March so it
was in March of 2022 but the season
began in about October September of
2021.
okay okay now so now two questions that
come out for that the first is
when you're practicing with the men in
the morning and you see that the worst
man on the male team can swim faster
than the fastest woman on the women's
team
um how what's the appropriate
psychological reaction to that because
you could imagine that you know you
could imagine two Roots you could
imagine on the one hand that it would be
demoralizing because it is in terms of
absolute performance or on the other
hand you could think well it's
irrelevant because that's not the game
right the game is that you're competing
against people who have your limitations
not people who have this other set of
limitations I mean if uh if you're in
the pool with a dolphin and it swam
faster than you that wasn't well it's
not going to be demoralizing because
it's not the same game so was there any
sense of demoralization among the women
with regards to the apprehension of the
superior performance of the males or was
that off the table was that irrelevant
yeah that was that was irrelevant
um of course we expected to get beat but
in a sense it
gave us kind of a driving Factor if
we're racing next to a male
um or whatever that looked like if we're
um practicing next to a male
you could almost strive to keep up with
them because you knew in a sense that
you couldn't but you could kind of set
that barrier let's see how close I can
get so by no means was it demoralizing
it was more so irrelevant if not well I
mean it could be seen as beneficial to
competing and or not competing training
with males because you're training next
to someone who's better than you and
that's always a good thing right if
you're dedicated to pushing yourself and
bettering yourself
um so in a it was not demoralizing by
any means it was more so irrelevant
okay okay okay so now March 2022 you're
at a championship maybe you can you can
fill us in on the details here and is
this the first time that you come up
against Leah Thomas particularly this is
the first time I had swim against Leah
Thomas
um a little earlier tell us that story
tell us that story and how did you find
out
tell us the whole story how did you find
out that this was even going to happen
so how did you respond and how did your
team respond so in about November of
2021 November December time period this
is about the middle of our season
um it's my senior year
um
I had made it my goal to become a
national champion
um the year prior I finished seventh in
the country and I knew I could do better
there was a lot of girls who finished
above me who were graduating or who they
weren't competing in the same events for
whatever reason so I knew I could
perform better than I had the year
before
um
about November December
I was on track to do so I was ranked
third in the country behind one amazing
female swimmer who I knew very well
because like in most sports your top
tier athletes you know each other
regardless of where you compete in the
country which school you go to what
events you even swim because you've
grown up competing against each other
and she was of course ranked second and
the person who was ranked first
was this was the first time I became
aware of Leah Thomas
but at the time unbeknownst to me this
was a male there was a lot of red flags
one of which being this was a swimmer
from University of Pennsylvania which is
not a school that historically produces
fast swimmers think of basketball you
have your schools that historically are
pretty good I've never heard of anyone
come from University of Pennsylvania and
be a decent swimmer two
this person was a senior which was
bizarre swimming is a sport where
typically you Peak when you're younger
to Peak when you're 22 years old that's
that's not not common three the swimmer
was ranked at the top and everything all
the freestyle events from the 100
freestyle which is a Sprint
everything in between to the mile which
the mile is long distance and so think
about your Olympic Runners your best 200
meter Runner is not your best marathon
runner but that's what we were seeing in
this individual those are totally
different systems
um lots of head scratching right so
that's we should we should concentrate
on that for a second because I think
your your comments there are
particularly germane because
when you're competing at a very high
level
small differences in specialization are
going to loom large and as you said in
the Olympics the people who win the
sprinting events aren't the people who
win the long distance events those are
even though both of them are running
there's enough difference between those
formats of running and the strategies to
completely differentiate the athletes
now but you're seeing someone who
is all of a sudden far above the average
on a whole sequence of events that
shouldn't be associated in that manner
right and so there's something there's
some there's something in the wood pile
that isn't just exactly right and so and
you said at the moment at that time you
didn't know that this individual Leah
Thomas was male no idea lots of head
scratching you know who is this person I
talk to my coaches he knew my goals and
he knew this person was a threat to my
goals and we're trying to figure out you
know why have we never heard of of this
girl we thought at the time why have we
never heard of this person you know we
talked amongst our team
um just there was this feeling how the
hell did you not know how is it possible
that you didn't know and that your
coaches didn't know I am this person was
male like this is this is solely weird
because it's not like you wouldn't
normally as you said know who your
competitors are how was this little
secret let's say kept secret I think it
was um something the university kept
under wraps for a while and I didn't
compete again directly against this
person I had no idea what this person
looked like no idea that this person was
six foot four and it just seemed so
far-fetched that this could be that this
could be a male it never even once
crossed my mind never once I I was more
apt to believe that this was just
someone who appeared than it being a
male I thought that would never happen
especially at the level we were
competing at but it was only a few days
after these nation-leading times were
posted that an article came out and I'm
talking in a very brief sentence as if
we were supposed to just read over it
and continue on and the article didn't
say this very briefly the article says
Leah Thomas is formerly will Thomas and
swam three years on the men's team at
University of Pennsylvania before
deciding to switch over to the women's
team and then continued on
and so my coach sent me the article and
he says you need to look at this
and I read it and I have to read it
again
and
I was shocked naturally of course when I
read this
but truthfully
it felt like a sense of relief you know
it made it all make sense
um it makes sense why this person is is
dominating everyone again I'm relating
back to my experiences in competing and
training I guess practicing with men
naturally this person is dominating
that's why I say it felt like relief
because I was then able to look up who
will Thomas was
I was curious as was this a lateral
movement was this someone who went from
ranking first to continuing to rank
first which is of course not what we saw
um we saw something no no let's talk
about what we saw yeah because this is
this is absolutely relevant
psychologically and this is where I
think the rubber really hits the road
because you know it would be one thing
perhaps
to have someone who was outstanding in
their Fair competition
then become outstanding in your
competition but although Will Thomas was
a decent swimmer he was by no means
outstanding so you could say that
comparatively speaking it wasn't exactly
as if he was a failure because he was a
competitive swimmer but he was no bloody
championed and so to me and I'm speaking
as a psychologist here that begs the
question is that well he wasn't
spectacularly successful on the mail
front and so you might ask well exactly
what are the motivations for choosing to
be spectacularly successful on the
female front and that doesn't strike me
as part of the bounds of Fair
competition in any sense of the word
whatsoever psychologically or socially
okay so let's talk about will Thomas's
pre-female record as a swimmer
absolutely
um so what we saw the year prior at best
Leah when Leo was Will was ranked 462nd
nationally among the men at best
um so of course that's why that's again
why I felt relief because I thought
of course it was obvious just looking at
what's on the paper in front of us this
was not a lateral Movement by any means
um I thought the NCAA which is of course
the governing body who would ultimately
decide if Thomas got to compete with the
women I thought they would see it
exactly how I saw it nothing opinionated
nothing hateful nothing rooted in hate
the facts of it
um what we were looking at
that is not how the NCAA saw it they saw
absolutely nothing wrong with allowing
Thomas to go from a mediocre male to now
the fastest woman in the country
okay so let me ask you a question here
this is going to require some
speculation on your part eh so we might
say
well it's all about winning and so
um why not set up the contest so that
you can win and I know this is
preposterous imagine you wanted to play
one-on-one basketball you know for
entertainment and you decided that what
you were going to do is win and maybe
you're uh so you decide to play
basketball with your
I could do this even though I don't know
how to play basketball with the damn I
can pick my three-year-old grandson to
play basketball against and I just
stomped the hell out of him and uh
pretty regularly right and pretty
convincingly and uh I would be the
winner
and anyone with any sense would look at
that and say well that's pretty pathetic
kind of Victory there buddy you know why
don't you pick on someone your own size
and anyone with any sense would also
point out well you know it's probably
the case that if you pick the wrong
opponent which is someone that you can
trounce regularly without effort that's
really not going to be very fun and
that's partly because you're not pushing
yourself in any real sense you're not
breaking pushing the boundaries you're
not developing yourself you're certainly
not helping them develop you're
demoralizing them so I could say well
Riley why don't you um
why don't you enter yourself into like a
contest swimming contest for girls but
in the like 10 year old division
you know you could win hands down quite
handily I would presume you could make
quite the fools out of those 10 year old
girls and so
um that now and this is what I would
like you to speculate on like what kind
of mental gymnastics do you think you
would have to perform internally so that
if you did that and you won you would
think that in any way you were actually
a winner
you know what I mean like how do you
have to twist and DeMent yourself to the
point where you believe that having done
that and accomplishing your aim which is
the devastation of your opponents that
you're now someone who can celebrate
themselves here's my trophy and and that
others celebrate and that anyone who
refuses to celebrate is now bigoted so
how how what kind of mental state do you
have to be in to do that I think what
that boils down to is of course
selfishness
um entitlement that's the word I think
of when
this whole trans movement it's as if
it's they feel owed something they feel
entitled to winning
um and they have another disregard
towards everyone else for everyone
else's happiness feelings safety privacy
dignity
um as long as discipline sacrifices as
long as all of the things that you that
you put into this the thing that I find
so utterly appalling about this although
there's many things is that you know you
really spent as you said 18 years
preparing yourself for this and that
came into non-trivial cost and I'm I
mean I'm not feeling sorry for you but
what I am thinking is well you know you
were playing a straight game and the
consequence of that was that you were
then subjected to a crooked Championship
like hyper hyper crooked hyper
moralistic yeah and that you were you
were thrown into the ring with someone
who's an unrepentant narcissist and then
because of your objections were also
pilloried morally which is just you know
the icing on the cake okay so now you
find out that Leah will
um is a man not was but is a man and
he's decided that he's a woman and the
people who are enabling this idiot
narcissistic delusion have also decided
that he's a man and so now you're facing
him in competition so what sort of
shock waves let's say does that send
through you psychologically but also
through your team it's
um
swimming is of course a physical sport
there's a lot of there's several
physical aspects that go into it but
just like any sport there's so much
mental that goes into it as well
so I can't even tell you what this
distraction because that's ultimately
take take away the unfair competition
piece that's ultimately what this was it
was a huge distraction
um it was all anyone could talk about
there was so much media attention which
I think we can all agree swimming is not
a sport that typically Garners media
attention
um there was awkward Whispers on the
pool deck of people who felt so
uncomfortable and wrong but didn't feel
comfortable enough to say it loudly
there was side Eyes eye movements there
was so much that just kind of made you
feel as if you were living in this
Twilight Zone
um
so that's what that piece looked like
from the mental aspect
um so what do you mean living and what
do you mean living in a Twilight Zone
what was that like psychology I have a
specific reason for this which I'll tell
you about but what do you mean what do
you mean it was like a Twilight Zone it
felt as if in my perspective
um two years ago maybe
a man enters a woman's locker room he's
immediately arrested and charged with
voyeurism and decent exposure sexual
harassment I'm sure the list could go on
but now Not only was it happening
um it was being celebrated it was being
encouraged it just felt as if so quickly
again maybe I was naive to how
rapidly this was happening or if this
had been happening for a while and now
kind of doing more research and studying
up on this I realized it it happened
quick in a sense but this has been
it's been happening for a while um this
was their ultimate goal for a while now
we'll be right back first we wanted to
give you a sneak peek at Jordan's new
series Exodus
so the Hebrews created history as we
know it
you don't get away with anything and so
you might think you can bend the fabric
of reality and that you can treat people
instrumentally and that you can bow to
the Tyrant and violate your conscience
without cost you will pay the piper it's
going to call you out of that slavery
into Freedom even if that pulls you into
the desert
and we're going to see that there's
something else going on here that is far
more Cosmic and deeper than what you can
imagine the highest
[Music]
is presented precisely as that spirit
that allies itself with the cause of
Freedom against tyranny I want villains
to get punished but do you want the
villains to learn before they have to
pay the ultimate price that's such a
Christian question
so there's a there's a marker for
traumatic stress by the way
one of the markers for traumatic stress
is a phenomenon called derealization
and so if something happens to you
and you can't believe it's happening
then that's a marker for
the development of traumatic stress
disorders now it's not in a variable
marker but it's a pretty good marker and
so you're talking about a situation
where you'd played a straight game and
we're in a straight game for 18 years
and then one of the most fundamental
rules of the game was flipped and not
only with regards to swimming and that's
not nothing because you devoted your
life to it and so had your other so had
your teammates but also with regards to
the locker room because right there's
two things going on here not only are
you competing against will Thomas who
now calls himself Leah and has his idiot
acolytes going along with that but
there's the locker room issue too
so let's fast forward to the competition
itself tell me about the locker room
situation and then also tell me about
what it was like to compete that day
um I'll start by kind of filling you in
on the competition
so that first day of competition was
um I don't I don't have any events that
fall on this day so this was a day that
I didn't compete but this was the 500
freestyle was one of the events which
was the event that Leo swam the first
day
um
again being an event I didn't compete in
I got to sit on the side of the pool and
watch this and if you don't know how
swimming works at this level you swim in
the morning you have to swim prelims but
you have to qualify for finals to come
back and swim again at night so top 16
make it back and swim again
and so I'm watching prelims in the
morning
and I there's several Heats maybe eight
or so Heats and so this girl comes up
next to me she had just swam in one of
the earlier Heats
she her name is Reika she swam for
Virginia Tech she's a fifth year because
of covid we got an extra year of
Eligibility to which she took
um she was from Hungary
and she stayed in the US I asked her I
was like why why did you take your fifth
year and she said I I've wanted to
become an All-American
and so she was standing next to me she
was out of breath um her heart rate was
high and she was watching the result
board to see if she made top 16 and she
realizes as the last Heat Dives in the
water which this is the heat that Leah
is swimming in in the morning
she realizes she's going to be right on
the cusp of making it back
she watches
Leah dominates beats everyone in the
Water by seconds which in swimming even
one second is a ton but Leah beat
everyone in the Water by multiple
seconds body links and these are
Olympians these are the most impressive
female swimmers of all time
but again beats everyone
Reiko looks up to the result board and
she realized she placed 17th and I knew
her relatively I didn't know her well
but I knew her name
and we're standing next to each other
and she grabs me grabs my hand looks at
me with tears coming down her face and
this is when my feeling shifted because
up until this point I felt kind of mad
just confused I felt mad that the NCAA
frustrated they didn't see it how I saw
it but she grabbed my hand tears rolling
down her face and she says I just got
beat by someone who didn't even have to
try
and that's when my feelings shifted to
heartbreak seeing how this affected her
knowing she put in the the same work to
a level that I did knowing she stayed an
extra year from her home country in
Hungary in the states so she could
achieve this goal and she just had that
stripped from her
um and again that's when it felt like
I'd been punched in the gut and so we
come back that night and of course Leah
Thomas swims to a national title beating
everyone the time Leah went this year
would have beat everyone in the country
again or sorry the time Leah went last
year would have beat everyone in the
country again this year
um
by seconds
uh so Leah became the first male to win
a national title for on the women's side
that next day of competition
this was the day that Thomas and I
competed against each other in the 200
freestyle
um
we both swam in the morning we qualified
top eight we came back that evening
um and we raced and almost impossibly
enough we tied
so we went the exact same time down to
the hundredth of a second which I won't
say never happens in swimming but that's
rare right
um to touch the wall at the exact same
time
and so
um we actually tied for fifth place it
wasn't a best time
for either of us I didn't perform my
best in Thomas I can
speculate I like how you use that word I
can speculate in a minute about what I
think
um
but we go behind the awards Podium after
our race and the NCAA official looks at
both Thomas and myself and says great
job you guys tied we don't really
account for ties in terms of trophies we
only have one so that Trophy goes to
Leah and so I was of course taken aback
by this
um not because I wanted the tangible
trophy I'm a 12-time All-American so I
have lots of those
um but it was the principle of him
outright looking at me as if it didn't
matter and telling me that Leah got the
trophy
and so I questioned so what was the
justification yeah exactly what the
hell's the justification for that
decision I questioned at minimum you'd
expect a coin toss absolutely to
randomize it so what the hell is going
on there exactly and I asked exactly
that I said you know why
I understand we tied I understand
there's one trophy but why are you
adamant on Thomas having this Trophy and
he was not prepared to answer this
um they hadn't been questioned and when
I say they I mean the NCAA that hadn't
been questioned for anything they had
done thus far
um so he kind of stumbled on his words
and and said oh well uh we're just doing
this in chronological order to which I
pressed back again okay I said what are
you being chronological about because we
tied and if you're referring to our
names I'm certain that g comes before T
so what do you being chronological about
to which she didn't have an answer and
he says back well
um Leah has to have the trophy for
photos you can pose with this one but
you'll have to give it back and you go
home empty-handed and Leah takes the
trophy home we can eventually also Leah
has to have Leah
has to have the
trophy for photos Okay so that's the
rationale okay so let's let's just delve
into that for a second so now I'm gonna
put myself in Leah Thomas's place in
will Thomas's place and I'm going to
think
well you know I'm six foot four and I'm
a man and I just tied this young woman
who's been
you know working her whole life to
become a fast swimmer and comparatively
speaking she's a much faster swimmer
than me because I was 460 second among
my peers and she's third and so and now
I've tied her and now these people have
come up and they're arbitrarily going to
award a trophy to me even though there's
no evidence that I deserved it at best
there's a 50 crack
50 percent uh chance that I'm the
deserving party here so what that would
mean is that if Leah Thomas was being a
proper gentleman let's say he would have
done one of two things he would have
said
well we have to flip a coin
or I won't take the trophy or he would
have said
well I'm not going to take the trophy
because it's unfair that you gave you
give it to me under these circumstances
and yet he did neither instead he took
the trophy and he went and posed for the
damn photographs and so it's very
difficult for me as a clinician to see
anything in that other than all the
Hallmarks of extraordinarily
narcissistic and entitled Behavior
because it is such a violation a
violation of
what would you say the minimum
professional athletic standards that
it's a kind of miracle and the fact that
the NCAA would promote that kind of
pathological
narcissistic behavior is really quite
the bloody miracle
so and anyways that's what happened so
that so now he's out there what parading
around with this trophy towering over
the girls and we are watching him do
this like what the hell are you thinking
is he actually enjoying himself like
it's so Preposterous right because I
can't I just can't imagine how anybody
can be foolish enough to think that what
they've done actually constitutes an
accomplishment and then to get all that
false attention you're such a hero
you've made such sacrifices it's all
it's lies at every single level of
analysis and yet he's basking in the
glory you know and also claiming that
anybody who might object is nothing but
you know a prejudiced bully when in fact
he's 100
and obviously the bully abetted by the
NCAA so you're watching this what the
hell are you thinking
it felt as if
I had been reduced down to a photo op
that's how I felt I felt like
again everything that I'd worked my
entire life for was reduced to this
photo opportunity to validate the
feelings of a male at the expense of my
own not just my own every female swimmer
at that meet
um it felt as if of course I understand
the implications of Title IX which was
just to ensure equal opportunities and
prevent discrimination on the basis of
sex
um
it felt as if we were totally throwing
it out of the window in that moment we
were doing a 180 and the guys of being
Progressive we were moving forward this
is progress this is not progress this is
taking us back at least 50 years in time
51 years in time to 1972 when Title IX
was enacted this is not progress how can
we sit here and actually say that women
losing out on opportunities women losing
spots on the podium to a male is
progress that is quite literally the
opposite that's how I felt I felt as if
it was at this point truthfully when I
realized I was Fed Up
um because I knew up until this point I
knew the unfair competition was wrong
this wasn't this wasn't trivial I knew
this I knew the locker room was long
which I know I'm going to touch on
because I think it's important I knew
that was wrong
but this piece this whole trophy
incident and again it wasn't about the
tangible trophy for me it wasn't about
something as as simple as holding it
that's it was the principle behind it
um so okay so a couple now it sounds to
me you know because part of me thinks
well I have no idea why the women's team
your women's team for example agreed to
to compete against Leah Thomas to begin
with now I'm going to modify that a bit
I think the reason in all likelihood
that you agreed is because you guys were
confused and you didn't know what was
hell was going on and you couldn't
believe it and so I think you were
thrown into a situation that required
more preparation and philosophical
finesse than would have been reasonable
to expect from you but I have been
struck by the fact that
the vast majority of female athletes
seem willing to they're no they're no
worse than University professors on the
woke front by the way it's the same
bloody thing but it is striking to me
because it it isn't the least bit
unreasonable for the female athletes
just to get together
and say well we're not competing against
men like period if you want to do that
we're not going to attend the meats
we're not going to play that idiot game
and so now you've decided
in many ways not to play that game but
you're you're obviously
still representing
at least formally a minority position I
know that behind the scenes like the
probability that the vast majority of
female athletes feel that this is a
travesty you know unless they're make
doing some idiot woke virtue signaling
at their own expense that's a hundred
percent but um
why do you think that
people who are doing what you're doing
given the vast and self-evident
Injustice of this situation why do you
think they're so rare and why in the
world are you different
it's I think they're rare for a couple
reasons and these are some pieces I want
to touch on one the silencing aspect
that has gone into this
um I've talked to many of Leah Thomas's
teammates at Great Lengths one of which
only just this week has has alerted me
she's really ready to use her her name
behind speaking out it's taken her a
full year to recover from everything and
when I'm talking to her I'm asking her
you know
why are you so scared
what they went through
is
nothing short of chilling I mean it's
it's truthfully scary to think of the
suppression they had they were forced to
go every week to mandatory lgbtq
education meetings to learn about how
just by being such gender they were
oppressing Leah Thomas
um yeah how how how how how how long per
week did they have to attend the maoist
re-education camps you know what I'm not
sure what the time looked like but they
alerted me it was every week they had to
go oh yeah um oh yeah that's good oh hey
I see so not only did they get to be
defeated unfairly but they had to go
learn about how immoral they were for
being annoyed about it well that's
exactly because when they sent an email
to their Administration expressing along
with their parents on the email
expressing their discomfort in the
locker room
their Administration responded back with
if you feel uncomfortable seeing male
genitalia in your locker room here's
some counseling resources that you
should seek
um they were told that they are not
allowed to take a stance because their
school has already taken their stance
for them they were told you will never
get a job you will never get into grad
school you will lose all your friends
um you'll lose playing time you'll lose
your scholarship if you speak out they
were told that if you happen to speak
out and any harm whatsoever comes toward
Leah Thomas's way whether that be
physical harm emotional harm whatever
that looked like then they were solely
responsible which that's a big way to
put on anyone these girls were
emotionally blackmailed they were gaslit
into making themselves feel wrong for
feeling as if they wanted Fair
competition
um which is traumatizing right I mean
these girls who is this who is this
teammate or can you reveal her name yet
or not I don't know if she wants me to
reveal her name yeah okay there are
several track that down separately yeah
there are several of them and I think
you would be a great outlet for her to
even just another reverse talk to her
whenever she's behind her I'll talk to
her whenever she wants yeah this girl in
particular actually she um
she disclosed to me again privately that
when she was in high school she was
raped
um which again is traumatic and when she
began to share that locker room space
with Leah who would she disclosed shower
in their locker rooms would undress of
course
fully exposed in their locker rooms
that was very he's quite the scum he's
quite the scum route All Things
Considered no I'm I'm dead serious about
that there is 100 percent no excuse for
that and what those administrators did
to the teammates of Leah Thomas is it
goes Way Beyond immoral it it verges on
it's evil it heard his own criminal oh
man it's really something but this girl
when she
with her background and being sexually
assaulted she went to her coach
immediately and said this is really hard
for me is there something we can do and
he said I'm sorry you have to be
inclusive
that's what they were doing to these
girls
um so that's why a lot of
these girls are terrified did you watch
what happened to Nicola sturgeon oh yeah
minister of Scotland yes he tried to be
inclusive with the serial rapist
absolutely turns out there are some
people you just can't be that inclusive
with and Psychopathic serial rapists who
are claiming to be women so they can get
access to women turns out sharing a
locker room with them is probably not in
anyone's best it's not kind it's about a
shock no yeah yeah yeah no it's really
quite something yeah so let her know I'd
be happy to talk to her and if she wants
to round up a couple of her teammates we
could do a nice podcast they would love
that lay bear everything that well let's
do it man we'll lay bare everything the
idiot virtue signaling woke
Administration laid on them when they
were doing nothing but trying to defend
themselves absolutely it's it's okay
okay so let's talk about the locker room
situation so now not only are you you're
you and your teammates being stomped by
this second-rate male who is
narcissistically claiming to be a female
so he can get his photo ops in the
grandiz himself but you have to share a
locker with him as well so um what the
hell do you think is going on in his
mind when he's stripping down next to
these women apart from the fact that
he's extremely fortunate to be there
let's say
um but no seriously though what do you
think is going on with him like how is
he acting how is he behaving does he
have the good graces to at least look
somewhat embarrassed does he go change
somewhere where he can't be seen or is
he right there out in the open flaunting
his package let's say he was in the open
um granite in a corner relatively
um as if that's supposed to make
anything better it doesn't
um but I'll kind of set the scene
first of all swimming locker room is not
necessarily a place of modesty
um locker rooms are uncomfortable in
general for anyone bar adding someone of
the opposite sex into that space But
growing up a swimmer you almost feel
comfortable being being vulnerable in in
that environment these suits you put on
their skin tight so it takes about 15
minutes to really tuck and poke and
pride yourself into these suits 15
minutes of which you're fully exposed
but this locker room it's also a place
of buzzing and chatter you get to see
your friends from all over the country
who you haven't seen all year
um it's an exciting Place lots of lots
of talking lots of laughing
um
but I can't even tell you the
Dead Silence
in the room when all of a sudden
well first it got silent I turn around
unsure why it got so quiet so quick
I turn around there's a six foot four 22
year old male dropping his clothes and
is fully intact with an exposing male
genitalia
so let me be clear
we were not forewarned we would be
sharing this changing space no one told
us no one asked for our consent we did
not so what did you think what did you
think in that situation I mean I what
went through your mind the first word
that went through my mind was betrayal
um yeah right that's the first the first
thought I had the people who were
supposed to be
ensuring our privacy protecting us
failed on every front and bare minimum
did not tell us
so I immediately left the locker room I
immediately left and I I went to one of
the officials on the pool deck who
um
just one of the officials and I went up
to him and I said you know I understand
the guidelines for the meat which was at
the time it was only 12 months of
hormone suppression I said I know I know
that but what are the guidelines for the
locker room in word for word this is
what he says oh we actually got around
this by making the locker rooms unisex
so I'm thinking I'm like okay unisex
okay so this means that any man could
have walked into our locker room any man
not just a self-identifying woman any
man a coach an official I guess a parent
if they could be on the pool deck
um ah a fan seeking opportunity and no
one told us
and that's why I say it felt like that's
a nice touch I like that I really like
the fact they didn't tell you that stuff
yeah that's real sweet of them yes so
that's why I say it felt like betrayal
felt like belittlement of course it's
awkward it's embarrassing it's
uncomfortable there are so many feelings
yeah it didn't feel it didn't feel like
betrayal by the way it was it 100 was
betrayal absolutely at the deepest
possible level and Not only was it
betrayal it was conniving cowardly
sneaking subtle camouflage betrayal
absolutely because they didn't have the
goddamn good graces to come out and tell
you right you know they've they sprung
it on you so to speak and so that is
absolutely 100 percent unforgivable and
then to do that under the guise of
making the locker rooms unisex that's
just cherry on the that's just icing on
the cake man it takes a real uh what
would you say conniving malevolent
underground genius to come up with with
something that's sneaky and pathetic
absolutely so oh so so that was quite
the fun meet for for all you female
athletes say you got stomped real nicely
on the competitive front you got to have
such good time in the locker room too
with this six foot four narcissistic
wannabe who's parading round not only
his Parts but his virtue in this
absolutely contemptible sense and then
of course if you object to it you're now
the bad guy let's talk about that a
little bit you were at San Francisco
State University right so that's fun
don't go to universities because they're
a pretty damn pathological so now you
went there and you were invited to go
there so you're actually a guest right
so he in principle they should treat you
nicely since you're a guest and you're
taking your time and energy to go talk
to people who invited you and why and
what happened when you went there I was
invited by the Leadership Institute
um which is an organization that tries
to advance
um really they uphold the freedom of
speech they they do they try to advance
the conservative movement on college
campuses and so I spoke at a turning
point event
um
I'll kind of fill you in step by step of
what this looked like
I got there
um I was supposed to meet the campus
police department an hour and a half
before the event
um we were set to meet at this parking
garage and then walk over to the event
together
the police never showed up and so I
didn't think much of it you know there
was still an hour and a half before so I
figured I could just walk over and I'm
sure they would make their way over we
would talk about an exit strategy if
something were to happen which I I
thought I knew what I was getting myself
into I knew this was San Francisco I
knew this was a different environment
which almost excites me not because I
want controversy or because I'm looking
for arguments but because this is an
opportunity to get in front of people
who don't agree with me I was more
hopeful that they would come with
somewhat of an open mind to which they
simply didn't there were some there was
some civil yeah that was that was
definitely naive that was definitely but
yeah that's excusable and acceptable
while you were going to University
campus did you think you were a
conservative
I am
sorry did you say did they think or do I
think no no do you well you know you
talk to Turning Point that's Charlie
Kirk's organization right it's a
definitely a conservative organization
had did you have before all of this did
you consider yourself a political
creature did you have a political home
or an affiliation I am I've always been
politically in tune I've always been
pretty up-to-date and knowledgeable
about the different issues we face and
what that looks like and typically My
Views do align conservative
um that's not to say every view I'm not
someone who is going to feel like I have
to lean a certain way because that's how
I align that's not me
um but I like to be well versed I like
to be knowledgeable about what's going
on and so I've always been in tune shall
we say but by no means did I have any
sort of political background or
um any sort of
ulterior motive to where I wanted to be
in the position that I'm in right right
so you weren't a political actor oh
goodness no
um yeah okay but always tried to be
knowledgeable who's where who's doing
what
um I always watch the news and things of
that
um but by no means did I feel equipped
for the position I'm in I still don't
I'm learning no no I bet I'm learning
every day okay so back to back to SFU
you're there the police who are supposed
to help you don't show up and so you're
looking forward to this event and so
let's continue walking through the the
day's events so we walk over to the room
it's in a building it's on the third
floor
um
very quickly the room fills up
um it's there's some there's it's about
50 50 supporters versus protesters in
the room
um but they very quickly reach the
maximum capacity to which the
administrators who were president said
you know we're not allowing anyone else
in the room
and I was cool with that
um I understood up at this point that
there was some counter events going on
some some protests around campus one of
which they they organized this big sign
making event where the protesters they
got together and they all made signs and
they all walked over together they
orchestrated to sit in to where they sat
in the speech which again I'm I
understand that's your right to protest
you have the right to organize
um by no means do I think that I'm
worthy of stopping that
um that's understandable as long as
again it's it's civil and somewhat
respectful right
um
so I was able to deliver my speech I
talked for probably 40 minutes and let
me reiterate what my speech was I talked
about what it takes to compete at that
level
um my background how this is a lifelong
journey I talked about the competition I
talked about the locker room I talked
about the silencing piece not just from
the female athletes but parents
administrators medical professionals
even
um
nothing opinionated really my speech
there's no opinions in it it's strictly
my experience
um so I was able to deliver the speech I
answered questions afterwards to which I
was met with lots of questions and
oppositions which I find extremely easy
to answer whether they take my answer
that's on them but they're all easy to
answer
um but it was only after the speech I
just had concluded it had been probably
an hour
everyone was standing up to leave
and as people were standing to leave
first of all I should mention while I
was giving my speech I could hear people
outside the building I could hear them
chanting and it was a large group of
people you could tell I could hear them
chanting things such as trans women are
women or other chants they could come up
with
but as I continued my speech I could
hear chance getting closer and closer to
when
I concluded I could hear these people
right outside the hallway to where one
side of the hallway would yell trans
rights are under attack the other side
of the hallway would yell back what did
we do we fight back and so I could hear
this which was a bit unnerving just to
know that they were right outside the
door but again I I didn't really let it
bother me that's not something that
necessarily shook me at the time
but everyone stood up to leave
all of a sudden
a mob of people enter into the room they
rush into the room they flicker the
lights they turn the lights off and this
is when they rush to the podium where I
was and some other members of The
Turning Point chapter were
and this is where we were met with
assault and violence
um so they turned the lights off so how
dark is it in there when the lights are
off this this period is a blur to me it
all happened so quickly
um I felt so disoriented I felt so
jostled I felt so confused you know what
is happening I was told Granite I never
talked with the police before this but
the Turning Point members told me you
know the police said they're going to
lock the doors at a certain time there
should be no problems
um we'll be good so I I was under the
impression that the doors would be
locked which they were not
um so it all just happened so quickly
but yes they turned the lights off and
it's it was night time outside so it's
Pitch Black in this room which of course
you have to imagine it's really dark oh
so that was a sneaky little move yeah
the campus police are completely they're
com oh of course it's intentional they
know exactly what they're doing and and
the campus police are 100 unprepared for
any real aggression absolutely you know
they're yeah yeah and I mean to some
degree that's on them and it's on the
administration but it's also outside
their normal course of training and
activity they have no idea what to do so
the idea that you're going to be
protected by campus police on campus you
can bloody well just forget about that
that's not going to happen Okay so now
it's dark and who is it that's rushing
you exactly and how many of them are
there a mob of trans rights activists
whether that be trans individuals
themselves whether that be people within
this lgbtq community whether that be
someone who just considers themselves an
ally to this community there were so
many different
I don't want to say combinations of a
person but there were men dressed as
women and women dressed as men and
everything in between so it was very
again disorienting it was like who am I
being met with what is happening
um so as the lights are flickering the
lights are on they're off an officer
approaches me
um very quickly and she grabs me and
she's wearing nothing that indicates
she's an officer and again I hadn't met
her she never alerted me she was in the
room her face is covered with a mask and
she tells me very quickly trying to pull
me along as more people are filtering
into the room she says come with me I'm
I'm with the police and I didn't believe
her why would I believe her right
um so I was very hesitant I was
reluctant but truthfully I had no other
choice at this point because I was being
we were being rushed at the front of the
room
so we kind of navigate out of the room
we're only met with more protesters once
we get into the hallway we couldn't even
come out of the door of the classroom
because there were so many people
filtering in that we had to go out this
back door that led us to another
classroom to get out that way
um
to which when we got to the hallway you
look down to the staircase there's
hundreds of people you look down to the
other staircase of course which is your
exit path to get out of the building and
it's hundreds of people
so ultimately we had no other choice
than this officer led me to another room
along that same hallway where
I was barricaded for three hours over
three hours
um which was
interesting it was I mean you in those
moments in those hours you fear for your
life hearing what these people are
yelling hearing the things they want to
do to you
um an array of things all of which were
violent and vengeful and hateful and all
of the words of course in the well let's
hear them let's hear him what did they
tell you some of the things they were
yelling
um one of the terms they kept using
which I think is so ironic
um they kept saying we fight back
and I thought about this and I thought
the day before this event the day before
the Press Secretary of the body
Administration in a press conference
said the words our trans Community
they're resilient and they fight back
and so it just kept replaying in my head
wow they're using verbatim the same
verbiage that Jean-Pierre whatever her
name is is using
um they were yelling I see so this is
right from the top that that that's
that's one of the things that really
makes you wonder just exactly what
country you're in at a time like that
doesn't it absolutely the people who are
who are threatening you and barricading
you in because you're objecting to being
uh what would you say subjected to an
unfair competition by any reasonable
standard and now you're being mobbed by
half demented lunatics directly who are
directly acting out words that have come
up come from the highest possible state
or well Federal authorities yeah that's
real cute there's a betrayal for you
that's a nice one they were yelling
things
um such as to the officers who were
standing outside they were saying you
know you're only protecting her because
she's white they were yelling things
which is
they were yelling things such as you
know you shouldn't have come here you
should have known what you were getting
yourself into you knew we would Riot let
her out of that room so we can handle
her ourselves at a point what do you
think would have happened what do you
think would have happened just out of
curiosity or what were you imagining
would happen if you would have if they
would have got access to you it's a
security of any sense like realistic
yeah yeah we saw what happened to Posey
Parker exactly right I mean she she got
mob quite nicely and she had tomato soup
downstairs it never got to the point of
you know permanent physical violence but
but
what do you think would have happened I
think just that I think these people
based off of what they were saying I
mean they were explicitly saying they
wanted to hurt me
um yeah I don't know to what extent that
looks like but I'll tell you these
people are they were unhinged they were
Relentless
um and that's something they kept saying
is we're not letting up right well and
they're in a mob too which is always a
bad thing right because even if each of
those people was only five percent
insane on their own in a mob they're a
hundred percent insane and so yeah and
so how many people are in there
barricaded in with you and why were the
barricades effective why didn't they
just like hammer down the doors and have
at her it was just in terms of
people in the room other than the
officers it was just me in that room
um there was a few officers who would
filter in and out
um but there was a few campus officers
who stood outside the door who kept
people from I guess tearing down the
door
um how did they treat you how did the
officers themselves treat what was their
attitude towards you like I was I of
course respect law enforcement and
applaud them for their job because it's
a hard job and it's a thankless job
um
but these officers were
I don't know if pitiful is too harsh but
they were terrified they were terrified
yeah they were scared to be seen as
anything other than an ally to this
community
um there was one person in the mob who
was African-American who
um I guess the officer just had to push
around a little into which this person
yelled back you know you're only doing
this because I'm African-American I'm
going to sue and so these officers they
don't want to put themselves in that
position they've seen how that's gone in
the past again to a much greater extreme
but they don't they don't want to deal
with this they they want all hands off
deck so it affected how they did their
job
um they were terrified of
creating a safe exit strategy for me
using Force by any means I missed my
flight home
um to which I told them you know I'm I'm
gonna miss my flight is there something
we can do I want to go home I don't want
to be stuck in San Francisco anymore
twitch at this point I began to get
upset so you're essentially at that
point you're essentially kidnapped well
it gets even better from there because
yeah okay inside this room I could hear
these protesters on the outside
and probably two hours or so in maybe
two and a half these protesters the dean
of students shows up
these protesters are trying to negotiate
if I make it home safely they're saying
if she wants to make it home she has to
pay us to which this dean of students is
negotiating with them they all claim
they pay you what they pay you meaning
what I had to pay the mob that's what
they were claiming what what did you
have to pay them
um a couple suggestions one person
suggested you know if she wants to make
it home safely she has to pay us ten
dollars each
um which is so silly
um but it's not silly it's kidnapping I
I it's it's not silly it's horrible it's
it's beyond reproach and so beyond it's
it's beyond it's beyond surreal oh
that's amazing and and so the dean of
this the dean of students didn't
take names and decide that those were
some students that could be easily
dispensed with and removed from the
campus permanently
she decided she'd negotiate with him
play nice because after all they were
all they were doing was kidnapping you
in extortion and engaging in extortion
with the threat of violence that's all
they were doing whereas you were you
know complaining about the fact that
you'd been subjected to an utterly
unfair competition by officials that had
betrayed you that's your crime their
crime is kidnapping and extortion and
you'll love this cute because after this
event
um I can and I can talk a little bit
about how I actually got out but after
this event
um rather than releasing a statement
saying we condemn violence or
um we have to uphold the freedom of
speech the vice president of student
affairs her name is Dr Jamila Moore she
sent out an email to their student body
in this email it says
we applaud our brave students
they were in a situation where they were
met with adversity they were met with
um they were put in a very hard
circumstance listening to someone who
spreads violence and we applaud their
bravery and their peaceful protests sent
an email to their University
describing what I went through as
peaceful
and so I read this yeah yeah and I'm so
curious you know that's a real that's a
real backhanded compliment that era
sufficiently terrifying Force to have
oppressed you know 200 rampaging
Mobsters you know you really are quite
the monster if you were able to manage
that exactly well you're well you're
being barricaded in a room and and
essentially kidnapped and extorted so
you know that's definitely a compliment
totally the most backhanded possible way
yeah yeah well it's quite something to
watch this
um
to watch this uh
this offer of an extended sense of
victimization to the perpetrators
themselves you know had to undergo all
the trauma of having to listen to you
describe how you were betrayed by the
NCAA and by the Biden Administration and
by all the virtue signaling dimwits who
thought that forcing you and your
teammates to compete against a man was
actually acceptable and morally
justifiable
you know and so now we're in a situation
where your mere attempts to defend
yourself are regarded as some variant of
hate speech and provocation to violence
yeah that's perfectly God damn
delightful that's a lovely way to think
about it so
um yeah I don't suppose you heard from
anyone like Kamala Harris for example
complimenting you on her your bravery I
know she sent off a Miss of a while back
to Dylan Mulvaney you know letting him
know what a brave soul he was for doing
whatever the hell it is that he's doing
I don't suppose you heard anything from
from anybody up in the Democratic
authorities
your bravery absolutely yeah yeah I bet
you haven't no yeah that is um
I'm not holding my breath that's no no
no no no
no okay so let's look we should we
should wrap this up we've been going for
about 90 minutes that's a lovely story
to conclude with uh and so wow so one
final question perhaps maybe there's
something else you want to add as well
that's quite the experience you went
through at SFU I experienced something
like that at Queen's University uh we
were barricaded into a
I had 500 people in there with me but
the mob came and barricaded the doors
and they were pounding on the windows
and which they eventually broke and you
know it was quite the it was quite the
mob scene and so uh you know yeah yeah
so I I'm familiar with that kind of
thing although you were outnumbered a
lot worse than I was let's say
um so
that's another existential shock okay to
go through something like that and to
see just exactly how corrupt these
bloody institutions have become and how
eager they might be to throw you to the
wolves and so you know you've already
been through your fair share of uh
inverting experiences let's say what did
this do to you
it was interesting because of you drawn
at first naturally
this almost deters you right I mean when
you're met with this kind of force it's
terrifying
um again based off of what they were
yelling how they orchestrated all this
how the officers did nothing how the
administration applauded it it just
makes you feel as if you're doing
something wrong but after
of course the next day I step away from
the situation and I'm thinking to myself
on my flight back home eventually I made
my flight back home
and it just occurred to me
they have nothing else to dissuade from
my argument other than reacting that way
they don't have truth they don't have
science they don't have any logical
points they don't have reasoning they
don't have anything that would allow
them to have an argument that's
substantial enough to go back and forth
with mine so that's why they reacted the
way they do
so then it hit me this can't be
something that silences me
um if they act this way it only means
you're getting closer you're right over
the target
um that being said
it's not going to deter me it's only
going to encourage me to continue I have
now increased my security so I guess I
can thank them for that and I can thank
them for truthfully I think this whole
situation backfired on them because
again while this shouldn't be a
political issue it's inevitable that it
is and this has made even a lot of
liberals a lot of people who typically
lean left really open their eyes to what
the left again I hate this is political
but it is what the left is really doing
here this is how they react when they
when simply they don't agree with
someone this is what they're willing to
do and so it's opened a lot of eyes it's
only increased my social media following
it's only increased my platform to
continue sharing my message which that's
never I never want to advance myself
personally again it's not about me it's
not about my social media following it's
about getting the message out to whoever
will listen whoever wants to hear it I'm
willing to talk
um what do you want what do you want if
you could have what you wanted let's
talk about the NCAA let's talk about
these Sports organizations
like what are your terms of Peace what
what do you think should be done of
course I want change
um what I've been doing this past year
is traveling state to state
um testifying a different state
legislature I'm going back to Texas on
Monday to testify I'm testifying in
front of Congress
um in just a few weeks
um so whether that be the state level
the federal level upholding Title IX
that's a big ordeal right now
um doing everything in my power to
combat this movement
um so I'm hopeful there in regards to
sports specific governing bodies
um
it's interesting because you have many
sports going many different ways
swimming track and field they've taken a
good approach but what about rowing and
FIFA and other sports they've taken the
total opposite mixed martial arts
fighting they've taken the total
opposite approach and so while I might
not have much expertise in cycling or
disc golf or whatever that might look
like I still want to do everything I can
to fight for those girls and women again
they might not have the confidence they
might not have the personal testimony I
have they might not have
um the security to speak up so doing
what I can for them so ultimately change
is what I want to enact no girl should
have to go through what we went through
regardless of what level regardless of
what age regardless of what sport
two I think there needs to be a sense of
accountability whether that be from
universities whether that be from
administrations whether that be from the
government there needs to be a sense of
accountability of how this is harmful to
women because the people who are in
opposition of this right now of
protecting women's sports specifically
really women in general but we're
talking about women's sports these
people who are
doing everything in their power to
advocate for male trans inclusion in
these spaces
um they're not acknowledging how this is
hurting women and therefore
um it's overall harmful I believe there
needs to be a sense of acknowledgment
from all of those
um different entities that I listen are
listed
um
to understand why this is harmful to
women so that's what I've been trying to
communicate to anyone and everyone who
will listen yep well
kind of looks to me like you're doing it
with a fair degree of Effectiveness and
so you know congratulations on that
front Tom I'm sure you've got no
shortage of
surreal adventures in front of you over
the next while because
um you know this is a crazy situation
that you found yourself in and you
certainly saw that at San Francisco
State you know to be mobbed like that
and then to have the administration feel
sorry for the mobbers and to Acclaim
their virtue for you know Having the
courage to stand up to such a
reprehensible powerful individual is you
it's it's quite the bloody charade and
you know it's very much emblematic of
what's going on in the universities they
have many sins on their conscience
that's for sure and this is one of them
and
um this whole spectacle is so surreal
that it's you know it's a form of black
comedy and it's quite something to be
in the midst of that Maelstrom but you
seem to be holding your head up quite
nicely and if you're careful and you've
been smart enough not to apologize or
backtrack and that's a big deal so tell
your the people that you're in touch
with you know that uh especially Leah
Thomas's teammates that I'd be more than
happy to talk to them if they'd like to
share with me exactly what has happened
that'd be great especially with regards
to the you know the administrators of
the athletic events and the university
administrators especially I'd really
like to talk to them about how it was
that they got finagled into taking
mandatory ethical retraining programs as
a way of redressing their complaints
because that is that is so inexcusable
that it's well it's a whole new level of
absolutely miraculous and malevolent
stupidity right oh you don't have a
problem you're actually mentally ill and
if you were just a little bit more
compassionate you wouldn't mind sharing
your locker room room with a demented
male narcissist absolutely right right
right so we could have a fun
conversation about that so you can let
them know I will I will they'll love
that all right all right okay so Riley
well um thank you very much for agreeing
to talk to me today that was quite
fascinating and uh you know
congratulations on your hard one
resilience it seems to you seem it seems
to all that dedication seems to have
paid off in a very strange way and God
only knows where that'll lead and uh to
everyone watching and listening on
YouTube thanks for your time and
attention to the Daily wire plus people
for facilitating this conversation thank
you to the film crew here in Porto
Portugal
um thank you for making this so smooth
and making it work and we're gonna I'm
gonna continue to talk to Riley for
another half an hour on the daily wire
plus platform side of things behind the
paywall if any of you who are listening
are inclined to throw a little sport in
their Direction you might want to
consider doing that because we are in
something approximating pretty cultural
war and you might want to you know do
what you can to support those people who
are
well let's say who are supporting the
proposition that women shouldn't compete
against giant men in their own sports
just for starters so all right Riley
good to meet you yes you too we'll meet
again here right away okay
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com